This project contains the components needed for the Liftr PerformanceTelemetry.
There are three main parts of this project:

# Project design
Performance Dashboard design solution - https://microsoftapc-my.sharepoint.com/:w:/g/personal/saurgupta_microsoft_com/EQG3GkwEATBGmwLIv3DGTCcB-qCfOhOyd9_pgR3vKlo2nA?e=SY3D7C

This is part of the Liftr Common dashboard initiative where the aim is to track system's reliability, performance and infra health as a whole. Please learn more about it here - https://microsoft.sharepoint.com/:p:/t/Liftr-Elastic2/EWzN8g4zjUtIqwq8YVXOwDIBV2PfIeCHud5wI1_eDx_mBA?e=khZmC1

## How to onboard
Reference PR - https://msazure.visualstudio.com/Liftr/_git/Liftr.Logz/pullrequest/5550401
1. For every API call(RPaaS to RP), call this package's OperationDetails method with operationTypes and Statuses parameters being selected as Start and None respectively. Please find it here [Calling OperationDetails method when the API starts](https://msazure.visualstudio.com/Liftr/_git/Liftr.Logz?path=/src/Liftr.Logz.RP.Web/Controllers/MonitorsResourceController.cs&version=GBmain&line=144&lineEnd=152&lineStartColumn=17&lineEndColumn=26&lineStyle=plain&_a=contents).
2. When the API ends(post all async operations), introduce the same method call but with operationTypes and Statuses parameters being selected as Stop and Success(if the API is returning success) respectively. Please find it here [Calling OperationDetails method when the API stops](https://msazure.visualstudio.com/Liftr/_git/Liftr.Logz?path=/src/Liftr.Logz.RP.Worker/RPWorker.cs&version=GBmain&line=124&lineEnd=132&lineStartColumn=25&lineEndColumn=34&lineStyle=plain&_a=contents).
3. Note - The subOperation parameter during the above 2 calls with be null.
4. During the flow of an API, whenever we make DB calls, call to marketplace APIs, calls to partners(external) or any other dependent service, track those calls by calling the operationDetails method by passing a relevant subOperation name.
5. Call the operationDetails method during the start of the sub operation like this [Caling OperationDetails method when a sub operation starts](https://msazure.visualstudio.com/Liftr/_git/Liftr.Logz?path=/src/Liftr.Logz.Service/IdempotentService.cs&version=GBmain&line=78&lineEnd=86&lineStartColumn=25&lineEndColumn=34&lineStyle=plain&_a=contents).
6. Call the operationDetails method during the start of the sub operation like this [Caling OperationDetails method when a sub operation stops](https://msazure.visualstudio.com/Liftr/_git/Liftr.Logz?path=/src/Liftr.Logz.Service/IdempotentService.cs&version=GBmain&line=93&lineEnd=101&lineStartColumn=25&lineEndColumn=34&lineStyle=plain&_a=contents).
7. You can chose not to track the end of an API call or a sub operation if the call didn't return success as we are not capturing the performance of failed API calls.
8. Please use the abstract class [MainOperationNameBaseType](https://msazure.visualstudio.com/Liftr/_git/Liftr.Common?path=/src/Liftr.PerformanceTelemetry/Models/Operations/MainOperationNameBaseType.cs) to extend and create mainOperations class that is more relevant to the RP. please find the one that logz created here [MainOperations](https://msazure.visualstudio.com/Liftr/_git/Liftr.Logz?path=/src/Liftr.Logz.Service.Abstractions/Models/TelemetryCapture/Operations/MainOperations.cs&_a=contents&version=GBmain). This will bind the mainOperations to the MainOperationNameBaseType class that we are supposed to pass as a parameter to the method OperationDetails of this package.
9. Please use the abstract class [SubOperationNameBaseType](https://msazure.visualstudio.com/Liftr/_git/Liftr.Common?path=/src/Liftr.PerformanceTelemetry/Models/Operations/SubOperationNameBaseType.cs) to extend and create subOperations class that is more relevant to the RP. please find the one that logz created here [CreateMainAccountSubOperations](https://msazure.visualstudio.com/Liftr/_git/Liftr.Logz?path=/src/Liftr.Logz.Service.Abstractions/Models/TelemetryCapture/Operations/SubOperations/CreateMainAccountSubOperations.cs&_a=contents&version=GBmain). This will bind the subOperations to the SubOperationNameBaseType class that we are supposed to pass as a parameter to the method OperationDetails of this package.
10. Please leverage and use the classes [MainCommonOperations](https://msazure.visualstudio.com/Liftr/_git/Liftr.Common?path=/src/Liftr.PerformanceTelemetry/Models/Operations/MainCommonOperations.cs) and [SubCommonOperations](https://msazure.visualstudio.com/Liftr/_git/Liftr.Common?path=/src/Liftr.PerformanceTelemetry/Models/Operations/SubCommonOperations.cs) for all the common main operations and common suboperations. This is handy when we have the operations on the marketplace service. Please feel free to extend it and add more operations to it as required.

## Tips on using the dashboard
1. Please find the [Liftr performance dashboard here](https://dataexplorer.azure.com/dashboards/95f2c1a8-9f33-47fd-8c20-fb10e3aa1322).
2. The dropdown options - 
    - Time range - will be applied to all the tiles and represents exactly what is says i.e showing the performance of the APIs for the time range selected.
    - Partners - will also be applied to all the tiles represents exactly what is says i.e showing the performance of the APIs for the selected liftr partners for the time range selected.
    - Environment - will also be applied to all the tiles represents exactly what is says i.e showing the performance of the APIs for that environment for the selected liftr partners for the time range selected. We have regions eastus and eastus2 under canary environment and any other region goes inside the Production environment.
    - Region - This selection overrides the Environment selection. This also applies to all the tiles and can be leveraged to have more control over the results. One can add the region(eg - westus2) into this field and the results will be shown accordingly.
    - Percentile - will be applied to all the tiles expect the tabular tiles named - *Details of Arm operations* and *Details of internal/dependent operations* respectively. Please use this dropdown to toggle between P50, P75, P90, P95 and P99 options respectively and the results in the tiles will change accordingly.
    - Arm OperationName - this is a textual field and the user is free to add any Arm operation of their choice and the results of all the tiles will update accordingly. 
    - Internal/Dependent OperationName - this is also a textual field and will update all the tiles dedicated on tracking and showing the latencies of dependent operations i.e tiles - *Latency by percentile for internal/dependent Operations*, *Average percentile latency of all internal/dependent operations(in secs)* and *Details of internal/dependent operations*.
    - UniqueidentifierId - The user can track the detailed latencies of an uniqueIdentierId by passing it in this textual field. This field will updated the tiles with names - *Details of Arm operations* and *Details of internal/dependent operations* respectively.
    - CorrelationId - The user can track the detailed latencies wrt a correlationId by passing it in this textual field. This field will updated the tiles with names - *Details of Arm operations* and *Details of internal/dependent operations* respectively.

## Troubleshooting
1. Please make sure that you provide same uniqueIdentifierType and uniqueIdentifierid for the same start and stop operations. Not doing this will fetch and show wrong latency values on the dashboard.
2. Please make sure to add the final OperationDetails method call of the success of an API after all the async operations are performed. This is to ensure that we see the exact time taken by that API from the customer POV, on the dashboard.